---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 14
---

###Minutia 14 Pd 6
###Roger Li
###10-15-13

###YCombinator

<a href="http://ycombinator.com/">ycomibnator.com</a> is a site that helps tech startups make their way into the world. They offer funding and a team to promote any products in the startup.

They also post relevant news items for the tech commmunity. It's sort of like reddit, but much more professional and organized since there's a more selective screening process.

It was started by <a href="http://paulgraham.com">Paul Graham</a>, who wrote a lot of essays on his site that contain a lot of interesting and useful information

###Databases

SQL Databases can be for data mining and data analysis. However, many people don't like it because it's not naturally in the language. Also, scaling is very difficult with SQL.

Then, NoSQL was created. It was a general term to wrap around a whole bunch of databases.

BigTable was google's first internal database. It was a complete mess. Nobody wanted to rewrite the code, so people just keptadding patches. As a result, the code is now a complete mess.

There's an open source version known as Hadoop. It starts with the key-value pair idea. Very simple, and could be distributed among many different tables. It was primitive, fast, and scalabe. However, it lacked some functionality.

Map-reduce is a system where an giant table is split up into pieces that are all processed independently. It helps scale queries. Then, with the answers left, they would be reduced down to one.

Drupal is a cms system. It uses redis as a key-value pair system.

###Document Databases

There's another type of databse called a document based database. It stores anything you throw into it, but you can retrieve it based on anything in the document. You can store sub dictionaries, lists, etc. It also scales very nicely due to its simplicity. It has operations like map-reduce. It's major downside is that it doesn't support relationships. There are no links between keys and values.

It stores native types, and translates between languages very easily. Since it supports native library interfaces, and direct library implementation, it feels very native.

We will be using <a href="http://www.mongodb.org/">mongodb</a>, a document database.
Online, it has a small browser shell, along witho nline courses. The mongo interface is in javascript.

Mr. Z then tried to connect to stuy's mongodb database and failed.

You can type "help" for the commands.
>showdbs is the command to show all the databses.
>use database-name switches to the right database.





