---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 26
published: true
---

#Minutia 26 Pd 6
##Jeffrey Yin
###11-04-13

Public Service Message of the Day: Nigerian Princes offer the best insurance for your viagra.


###Miscellaneous Info
If you get emails from recruiters, make sure you check whether you're getting scouted by the company itself, or by a recruiting agency. Be wary of the latter, because they are soulless companies and dun't love you. Google's recruiters are also some of the most incompetent people on Earth.
Z gets around the firewall for speed, he swears. And uses incognito. Nothing illicit to see here folks.

###Homework
Sign up for crowdgrader.org, and invite you collaborators. When? Yesterday night! (Z also sent out an email)

###Explicit vs Implicit Data Structures
(Note that these are not official terms.)
Most of what we've done thus far used explicit data sets, where every data point is generated and stored in physical memory. 
For implicit data sets, we don't actually create the whole set at once. It's implied: only parts of it live at any given time.

###Interlude: USACO(Wisconsin)
Bessie is in a field, which is a rectangular array with rocks and food. Bessie wants to get to the food in exactly six turns. How many ways can this be done?
Z solved this problem using cellular automata/Game of Life. 
Moral of the story: Keep implicit data structures somewhere in your mind, for Bessie's sake.  

###Reanalyzing Maze Solver Algorithm
Each call to solve represents one state in the state space (one-node graph)
A recursive call moves to another state or node
A return backtracks to an earlier node.
The method that we used to solve the maze was done implicitly. We never had the entire path in memory at once--we instead built parts which collapsed every time we returned, saving on memory.
Maze Solver two ways:
<pre> <code>
Recursive: 
Solver(){
	if (done) return
	else{
		move
		recurse on new neighbors
	}
}
Iterative:
while(!done){
	m= stack.pop()
	do move m
	add new neighbors to stack of moves
}
</code></pre>
###Depth First vs Breadth First
In that example, we used a stack as our frontier. As a result, we explored one path fully before returning to the intersection.
What if instead of a stack, we were to use a queue? When arriving at an intersection, you would explore all paths a little bit at a time. We search all nodes one unit away, then two units away, etc. This one change leads to a dramatically different effect.
Breadth first searches are best done by encapsulating in a loop.
