---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 16
published: true
---

#Minutia 14 Period 7
##Yaseen Islam
### 10-18-2013

__HW for the Wknd__

Z told us to rewrite our login/register app again, this time using MongoDB as our backend. He also mentioned that we should all have a way to change our password within the app.

__tidbit of knowledge: upsert__

    db.heroes.update({‘first’:’len’},{‘$set’: {‘powers’:orangeneness’}}, {upsert:true})

What upsert does is that if len exists in the heroes database, powers will be set to orangeness. If len does not exist, it creates a an entity with 'first' set to 'len' and 'powers' set to 'orangeness'.

###Mongo with Python

Well, first you have to install pymongo.
    pip install pymongo #this should work for a virtualenv
    sudo pip install pymongo #if you want to install across the system

You want to start off your python file with:
    from pymongo import MongoClient
    client = MongoClient()
Leaving the parens in MongoClient() empty will connect to a local Mongo server. If you want to connect to a remote server, write the address in the parens.
    client = MongoClient('db.stuycs.org')

Now here's some Mongo stuff that Z did in class:
    from pymongo import MongoClient
    client = MongoClient()
    
    #accessing a db
    db=client.newdb 
    
    #accessing a colection and adding documents
    db.newcollection.insert({‘name’:’julio’, ‘place’:”the hedge”}) 
    
    #python will not interpret this correctly. the "-" is treated as a minus sign 
    db=client.pd7-demo 
    
    #the correct way of doing it
    db=client.[‘pd7-demo’]  
    
    #this will print all the heroes
    for x in db.heroes.find(): 	
    	print x  
    
    #removes the hero with 'first' set to 'len'
    db.heroes.remove({‘first’: ‘len’}) 
    
    #not the right syntax
    for x in db.heroes.find():
	print x.last 
    
    #correct syntax
    for x in db.hereose.find():
	print x[‘last’]
    
    #printing without that long id number
    for x in db.heroes.find{}, fields={‘_id:False}:
	print x
    
    #in place of find, you can put insert, remove, update, or whatever your heart desires
    for x in db.heroes.find({‘first’:’johnny’}, fields={‘_id:False}):
	print x  

But right now, we're just printing the stuff. We can't really use it. At all. So let's put the info into a list for later usage, since moving through the data with a cursor is a one time gig. Plus, it's clunky as hell.
    result = list(db.heroes.find({}, fields={‘_id’:false}))
Now we can access specific stuffs in the db.
    result[3]  #prints out the third thing in your list
    result[3][‘last’]  #prints out the third item’s last name

However, this is still pretty inefficient. What if we want to specifiy what we're putting into our lists?
_List Comprehension_ <b>*gasp*</b>
    [x for x in db.heroes.find({}, fields={‘_id’: false})]

Remember, we can do coolio things with list comprehension such as:
    #This makes a list of just first and last names
    [x for x in db.heroes.find({}, fields={‘_id’: False, ‘first’:True, ‘last’: True}) ]
    
    #Does the same thing in a different way
    [“%s, %s” % (x[‘last’], x[‘first]) for x in db.heroes.find({},fields={‘_id’:False})] ]
    
    #This approach takes advantage of the dictionary-like properties of dbs
    [“%(last)s, %(first)s” % (x[‘last’], x[‘first]) for x in db.heroes.find({},fields={‘_id’:False})] ]

(Sorry for the lateness guys)
