---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 32
---

#Minutia 31 Period 7
##Vivian Wang
###11-13-13

###Note taking
Mr. Z reprimanded us for not having decent notes, so everyone needs to take notes!

###Project 2

We talked some more about Project 2 and the requirements.<br>
We have today and tomorrow to discuss our projects in class.<br>
The project must use at least one API, but otherwise, we're free to do whatever we want.

For the due date, Mr. Z wanted it to be due the Monday after Thanksgiving break. Period 6 fools decided they preferred an earlier due date. Period 7 clearly disagreed.<br>
Proposals are due Friday, but the project due date will be determined on Monday.

We were also told:
* if you think the project may be inappropriate, talk with Mr. Z.
* if you don't know if the project is possible, talk with Mr. Z.
* if your project is not something you can present when Mrs. Zhang suddenly walks in, talk with Mr. Z.
* if it's none of the above, talk with Mr. Z.<br>
Conclusion: tell Mr. Z your project idea.

###Creating Repositories

Mr. Z showed us how to create our own repositories for the second project so that there aren't 8 copies of one group's project in one repository.<br>
To create a new repository, go to new repository.<br>
Name it proj2-pd6-groupNumber-groupName. Group numbers range from 1-8, not 9-16. If you are fresh out of ideas for a group name, GitHub will suggest something.<br>
Remember to make the repository public because Mr. Z has a limited number of private repositories. If your project needs a private repository, talk with Mr. Z.<br>
Initialize the repository with a README unless you want to go through the trouble of trying to clone it without one.<br>
Once you have created your repository (only one per group please), go to settings and add everyone to the team so that we can edit.

###Groups

Before breaking off into groups to discuss our projects, we chose to run Josh H's groupinator. We stayed with the results of the test run because Glib loved his group.