---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 49
---

#Minutia 49 Period 6
##David Cahn
###12/13/13
AIM: Javascript closuers and variables

###Using Closures

During class we created an enviournment called usingClosuers. Students were asked to code this for themselves and Mr. Zamansky demoed it for the class. The code can be viewed in classCode (https://github.com/stuycs-softdev/classcode/blob/master/6/javascript/namespace/scope.js).

###Important Code
var x = 12345;

// This creates a single environment called

// usingClosures that gives us a safe name space and scopes

var usingClosures = function() {

    var x = 30; // this is like a private variable

    return {

        x : 40, // this is like a public variable

        f : function() {

            x=x+1; // this will modify the x that starts at 30

            this.x = this.x + 1; // modify the 40

            window.x = window.x + 1 // and the one that starts at 12345

            console.log("I'm in the function");

            console.log(x); // this logs the "closure" x which starts at 30

            console.log(window.x); // window. whatever access the global env

            console.log(this.x); // get the one in THIS object (the 40)

        }

    }

}() // <-- the () so that we run this function and return the object

    //         that has the x and the f in it

// usingClosures.x will give us the 40 

### Explanation

Mr. Zamansky created multiple variables "x." Our goal during class was to test different ways to print x and determine which "x" was being accessed. 

   1. Outside of the dictionary (x = 30): This is a private variable. It cannot be accessed from the console. It is only accessable within "usingClosures."

   2. Defined in the dictionary (x = 40): This is a public variable. I can be printed directly from the console and used outside of the method "usingClosuers"

   3. "x": Accesses the x in the closure (x=30), not the x in the dictionary

   4. "This.x": Accesses the (x=40) from the dictionary. The most confusing word in programming, according to Mr. Zamansky.

   5. "Windox.x": This accesses the global x variable defined outside of usingClosures.

### Fluffy + Homework

At the end of class Mr. Zamansky showed us code which used mouseEvents to either a) Turn fluffy left or right b) Move fluffy to follow the mouse. He expained how both of these were examples of games we are able to write with the javascript we've learned in his class.

For homework we have to write a fakeToDoList which has a group of items to do, which if clicked move to the done section. When these items are clicked, they disappear.    