---
layout: minutia-6
title: Period 6 Minutia 30
published: true
---

#Minutia 30
##Jason Zhen
###11-12-13

Class began with Mr. Z trying to demo a group's project but had to install pip, pymongo, etc. This brought us into the Global Interpreter Log. We can all huddle around and look at the Book of All Knowledge together but it would be a mess if everyone tried to write in it at the same time. The log is locked when one person is using it and prevents multiple people from add changes.

###Green Unicorn
* Installation: sudo pip install gunicorn
* gunicorn -w 4 -b 0.0.0.0:5005 -p pidfile -D app:app
* Every process has an associated pid number. To end a process, use the terminal command: -kill -9 [pid]
* Mr. Z then mentioned the existence of alternatives, such as Tornado (Facebook uses it)
* Don't try to use gunicorn without consulting with a reference, because it becomes annoying to kill or wastes machine resources.
* If two people try to run on the same port, it's first come first serve. The second person would get something like "Fail to bind"

###API's
We went over how to get stuff from the web. The basic structure of the functions Mr. Z has been using is:
<pre> <code>
   r=Rester(url-domain)
   qstring="url-API Stuff"
   result=r.call(q)
</pre></code>

Mr. Z then brought us to http://developer.nytimes.com/ and showed us how we could use the API Tool to test what a search should look like with Stuyvesant as a samepl query.

###Places to search for APIs
* programmableweb.com
 - Although the black background made it somewhat difficult to read, this site has a lot of APIs. We can search by genre, protocol, data, etc.
* NYC Open Data
* Socrata.com
 - Here you can even find the White House API and find out who visited the White House at various times.</li>

###Projects
* Now that Project 1 has concluded, a spreadsheet will be put up for us to evaluate our teammates. At the end of the year our evaluations will be considered as a whole to get a good idea of how well we work in a team.
* Project 2: we will run Groupinator again and regroup into new groups tomorrow.
	 1. Project must use at least 1 web API or data source. It should really use more than 1 because "If your program only uses Netflix API, why don't I just use Netflix?" However, using 1 web API or data source ce is justified if the project does something clever with the data.
	 2. You can screen scrape but it cannot be your only web source. Screen scraping is gradually becoming less important so we should learn to use other techniques.
	 3. The web source we use does not have to authenticate. Avoid the O_Auth APIs. If you wish to use something that authenticates, such as Twitter, use the library they provide. Do not try to do it yourself. Our curriculum will cover that later
	 4. It must look cool and do something cool. Does not have to use a database, but it can
	 5. You must have fun</li>
* Last year examples:
      1. User types in "Chocolate Cake". It would screenscrape an image and recipe for Chocolate Cakes off oldrecipes.com using their API, then makes a google search for the ingredients using the Google Search API. There were also other features and the user could do a lot of things with the list.
      2. A movie review program where the user could get information on actors by clicking on their pictures, watch Youtube trailers, and get official movie reviews.
      3. An Apocalypse Survival Guide where the user clicks on something like Zombie Epidemic or Alien Invasion. The program uses various APIs to fetch information on how to survive the selected apocalypse. This is completely impractical and cannot be used in a real-life situation, but it did something cool and the team had fun doing it.

Mr. Z suggested we poke around in programmableweb.com and search for websites we like and think of ideas for a project. 

###Most Important Part of the Minutia
The Book of All Knowledge was a reference to the movie Cirlce of Iron(1978) co-written by Bruce Lee who was to star in the film himself but he passed away before production. Lee's intended role, Cord, was given to David Carradine. At the end of the movie Cord obtains the Book of All Knowledge and looks inside, only to find every page is a mirror. There is no allmighty book of wisdom, enlightment is found within one's self. 

Bruce Lee envisioned his film as an entertaining introduction to Eastern philosophy, as well as martial arts. As he wrote in a preface to the script:
* "The story illustrates a great difference between Oriental and Western thinking. This average Westerner would be intrigued by someone’s ability to catch flies with chopsticks, and would probably say that has nothing to do with how good he is in combat. But the Oriental would realize that a man who has attained such complete mastery of an art reveals his presence of mind in every action...True mastery transcends any particular art."

Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circle_of_Iron