---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 18
---

#Minutia 18 Period 6
##Timothy Ong
##10-22-13

###Bootstrap

Bootstrap is a framework that includes multiple CSS files that can be used for styling. There are multiple frameworks that can be found online; some of the more popular ones are 

-   Twitter Bootstrap (very obvious to tell that a website is styled with this), 
-   Zurb Foundation
-   Pure CSS from purecss.io (website)

The Bootstrap framework that was used in class will be posted on the website.

.mini.css files are used for finalized versions of websites. These 'mini' files do not have extraneous characters and spaces so that users will not have to download as many characters when loading the website.

###Using Bootstrap or other styling frameworks

At the top of your python program:

       <link rel = "stylesheet" href = "PATH TO .CSS FILE/LINK">

We should always have a static folder in our repositories that will contain our styling frameworks and other static files such as images. These are separate from the /templates folder and have nothing to do with Flask.

###Project 1

We have two choices for this project:

-   Storyinator
    -	Once on the website, users will be able to see multiple stories
    -	Users must be able to log in and add lines to the story
    -	Users must also be able to create a story
-   Bloginator
    -	There will be one 'main' user that can make posts to the blog
    -	Other users can log onto the website and make comments on that post
    -	Users must also be able to make anonymous comments

Each group must have a leader, a back end person who will mainly deal with the database, a front end person who will mainly deal with the styling and a 'middle end' person who will work to tie these who parts in with Flask. We must use either SQLite or MongoDB for the database. Also, we have approximately 1 to 1.5 weeks to do this.

Mr. Z then ran multiple group's groupinators to no avail until Roger's finally worked. After the test run, groups got together to nominate the group leaders.