---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 47
---

#Minutia 47 Period 6
##Jeffrey Yin
###12/11/13
Today we went back to presentations, with three groups presenting.

Group 4: Aaron, Ben, Edric, Jing
OMNITHINKER:
Omnithinker is a writing tool intended to help with brainstorming. The site dynamically pulls data from wikipedia, updating based on what the user types. We tried it out in class, and wrote a fascinating essay on concrete, with no noticable bugs. One point that we did make is that a hotkey based system might be more effective. Personally, I think that the idea might have useful applications for writing code; ie: type something and the sidebar would pull up manual pages, and relevant stackoverflow questions?

Group 3: Jane, Marlena, Jeffrey (Me), Joshua
Trip Planner:
Trip Planner is a site designed to help you find new places to try, without going too far out of your way. While sites like yelp can find areas in a radius around addresses, there aren't any services for finding searching along your entire path. Our presentation ended up running into technical difficulties resulting from an extraordinarily bad pull.

Group 2: Timothy, Jae, Julie, Jared
Stock Market Game:
The Stock Market Game pulled data about the stocks, and returned a variety of useful statistics. The game starts you off with $1000, and lets your purchase and sell your stocks. A slight shortcoming we noted was that we had to actually look up the stock symbol for every company. The code also seemed to crash upon attempting a purchase, and did not actually register the transaction.

Group 3 (Reprise): 
Technical problems resolved! Our pages loaded, and we input a starting point (Stuyvesant), an end point (Flushing), and a search term (Chinese)...everything fine. Ignoring the mildly embarassing popup, the code then returned a list of Chinese restaurants from here to Flushing, organized by station. 