---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 25
published: true
---

#Minutia 25 Period 7 
##Kelvin Mei
###10-31-13

##Continuing from yesterday

### 1. Knight's Tour
* The knight has 8 possible moves so branching factor is 8
* You can tell that you are done when you jump n square times because n is the number of squares.
* To get rid of special cases, people tend to use if conditionals but it's possible to just change the conditions and solve the problem instead. i.e. 3x3 board to 5x5

### 2. N-Queens
* Simply a board filled with quens
* Branching Factor is 4, (Gotta avoid the 4 directions)
* The queens have to be in a safe position i.e. avoid capture

### 3. 15th Puzzle
* It's a 4x4 Matrix
* Also discussed Manhattan distance or taxi cab distance
* Taxi cab distance is when you can only go up and down. For example, visualize the queen (or bishop) and the rook in chess. The queen can move diagonally to one square where the rook takes 2 moves to do the same thing. The movement made by the rook is the taxi cab distance.

###4. Rubik's cube
*Meh

###5. CHESSSS
* It's complicated
* Complicated because there are two players so it branches out wildly depending on the moves of the other player. (Assuming the players make good moves)
* Personal Opinion: The new chess notation is cleaner (y)

##Unusual but expected stuff

###Soft Lockdown Drill
*Another useless thing that wastes class time
*No one bothered to check our classroom

###Halloween CS costumes
* The CS department was dressed up with these guns and walkie talkies. 
* Mr. Brown shot Josh.
* Mr. Z had his glasses off today.