---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 44
published: true
---

#Period 7 Minutia 44
##Vivian Wang
###12/10/13

At the beginning of class, we went through some of the Javascript homework assignments. It was determined that Jia Sen's homework was the best because it included a picture of President Obama.

### Presidents and their best qualities
From Jia Sen's homework, we went off into a tangent and began talking about presidents and their best qualities.
* President Clinton is good at convincing people.
* President George W. Bush is good at being impersonated by Will Ferrell.
* President Obama is good at disappointing people.

### Javascript
When we finally got to work, we talked about scope of variable names and closures.
A scope of a variable name is where that name can be used to called upon the variable stored in it.
Javascript has a complicated scope algorithm. It will search the function for the variable name first. If the name is not found, it will move up to the parent function and search again. Javascript will continue moving up until it has found the variable name or there are no more parent functions to search through.
Closures are functions that call upon elements from parent scopes.

Then, we were shown a few ways to return functions.
For example, if we have a function called f, we can return f(); or just return f; and run it outside the function it is defined in.

At the end of class, Mr. Zamansky showed us Invisible Thluffy which used the sound effects from Invisible Goat.
