---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 42
published: true
---

## Minutia 42 Period 7
### Yaseen Islam
#### 12/06/13


##Presentationsssss
<br>
Groups 7 and 6 went today.

###Group 7: #Twitter
The #Twitter group showed off their twitter based app. What happens is that you start with a certain hashtag, chosen by you, and then proceed to try and find a specified hastag in 3 clicks by clicking on related hashtags. Hardest part of the code was apparently the function that searches through recent twitter statuses to try and make a path for you through which you could find the specified hashtag. Not sure if this is clear.
A breadth-first is done to the data received from the twitter API to make a branching path of five nodes, 3 levels deep. One of those branches <i>should</i> be the correct one.
The group had said they wanted to make it more extensive (10 nodes, 5 levels deep) but the darned thing was so clunky that they said "Nah, mang, this shiz is 2 muchhhh." \*

 
###Group 6: PizzaMovie
The PizzaMovie group (you know, the group with the most beautifulerest people in it) presented a movie information app. You search a movie and, depending on the legality of the search, you get the movie information back. This includes cast, description, price, trailer, suggestions, movie poster, and ratings. However, this project is a perfect example of bad API's. Some of the API's PizzaMovie used did not have certain movies within their databases, and some API's referred to another entity with a similar name (ex: Dark Knight's cast). Group 6 also showed an important concept which we will be using later, if needed, which is a cache. Since one of the API's group 6 used had a request limit, it was deemed necessary to cache the results for searched movies, so that if they were searched again, it would not waste a valuable request.
Z also said that this group was "magnificently composed, and props to using PirateBay - even if I don't know how to use it." \*

 \*note: quote may or may not be exact.
 
##Some Pointers
- Linking to the source code somewhere on your app would be wise in case someone special (a potential employer?!?!) decides to look at your app and wants to see the associated code.
- Same as the previos point, just backwards. Link to the deployed app somewhere in the README. hoo rah

That's basically it. Yeah. Peace.
