---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 34
published: true
---

#Minutia 34 Period 7
## Victoria Chung
### 11/20/13

##Github Workflow
* Mr. Zamansky went over more GIT from the previous day. For example:
<pre>
	git branch
	git checkout z
	git pull origin z
	git push origin zane
	git push --set-upstream origin zane
	git status
	git commit
</pre>

* When you forget to add something to your git commands, the system will probably tell you what you're forgetting. You can easily follow its instructions. 
* To merge using github, all you have to do is send a pull request, put in the descriptions, and click on merge. Usually when the message "We can't automatically merge this pull request" comes up, you have to manually merge it yourself. Github gives you instructions to follow, however you may merge it yourself by fixing the file.
* Mr. Zamansky mentioned to us that there will be a couple of hiccups that come up but it's not a big deal. 
* He also reminded us that for our projects, we should separate the branches either by person or by feature. You should decide how you're going to do that and everything is going to be done through branches. 


##Forking
* In class we used Flask as an example: If you can't access the project but you want to modify it in some way, you can git clone it onto your local system. However, you cannot push back the changes because you're not one of the contributors. Instead of cloning, you can "fork" it into any one of your github repositories. However, you cannot fork a repository from yourself to yourself. You can only fork things from some organization to yourself, for example, from cstuy to yourself. 
* Everything is the same except you are working in your own forked copy. After you make awesome changes, you can send it to the actual collaborators of the project so they can change the code. You can merge your forked repository to their original repository by sending the pull request. When the project team receives it, they have the option of merging it or not.
* Examples of using fork: If someobdy is going to do a totally separate experiment with a project, you might want to fork it off. If somebody who's not in the class, who's going to contribute to the repository, it is also okay to make a branch or fork it.
* Being familiar with branches and forking would be an advantage for internships/jobs.

###Reminders
Project #2 is due a week from Monday (the monday after thanksgiving).


