---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 10
---

# Minutia 10 Pd 6
### Ben Kurtovic
### 10/08/13

Class today was dominated by a discussion of databases, taking up from where we
left off on Monday.

David proposed a _monolithic database_ of one giant class with multiple data
structures contained within it. This arguably provides the most compact storage
system, and fast access for a certain attribute (e.g. students by ID) but not
for others (e.g. students by name), since entries can only be sorted by one
attribute at a time.

Aaron proposed another system, breaking the database into separate structures
that take up more overall space but make access much faster. Mr. Z described
this as the first major advancement in database storage: keeping different
indices in the same data set, trading storage for speed.

The second advancement was breaking up the monolithic database into different
structures linked by certain attributes. In the case of the student database,
the student ID could be used as a key in multiple tables, one with the
student's name, another with their schedule, another with their grades, and so
on.

Mr. Z then spoke about how old file systems worked before the days of UNIX.
Entries in the storage system were called _records_, which are classes without
methods, like `struct`\ s in C. These were pre-defined to contain certain data,
so the system was very organized but far less flexible than today's file
systems. Mr. Z then discussed the problem of how to store the index of records,
noting that the data structure used was usually either a _hash table_ or a type
of _search tree_. We learned about a number of other search trees in addition
to the simple but limited _binary search tree_, which is problematic due to the
issue of imbalancement: the
[red–black tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red%E2%80%93black_tree),
[2–3 tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2%E2%80%933_tree),
[splay tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splay_tree), and the
[B-tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B-tree).
