---
layout: minutia-6
title: Period 6 Minutia 41
published: true
---

## Minutia 41 Period 6
### 12/3/2013
### Jane Argodale

### Projects and Reminders
Mr. Zamansky wants everyone to have a graph showing they made commits on Github! And deploy your projects online if you haven't yet.
Also, Z wants to remind us that we should be reinforcing the stuff he covers in class by doing a little bit of coding every night.

### Event-Driven Programming
The submit button's default behavior, as an example, is with forms, but with Javascript you can do "event-driven programming," or "callbacks." Events can happen at any time, and your program decides how to respond to them. For example:

    var redback = function(e) {
        var items = document.querySelectorAll('li');
            for (var i = 0; i < items.length; i++) {
                items[i].classList.toggle('redback');
            }
        }

Then you put redback in your CSS code as a class and make text red there, and you have a function that can turn list items red.
Here is code that will create a button to make list items appear red:

    button id = 'button1';
    var elt = document.getElementById('button1');
    elt.addEventListener('click',redback);

If you log the event, you can get pretty detailed infomration about the event in the console.
Also important to note: the difference between this in Javascript and Java. In Javascript, it refers to what item the event is happening on, rather than a general class or object.
And some mouse-related events besides 'click' include 'mouseover' (when the mouse hovers over an element) and 'mouseout' (when the mouse exits the element's space).

