---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 30
published: true
---

#Minutia 30 Period 7
##Tak Chi Wan
###11-08-13

###Moodle

Mr. Zamansky is still in the process of trying out new tools, so we should check out the stuycs moodle server. Login 
details & instructions are written in the email. 

###XML

Besides JSON, there's also XML. In XML, you can make whatever tags you want, e.g. person, profession, company. 
However, there are downsides to XML. It is really messy to work with, and it seems to map to trees instead of dictionaries
and lists.

###JSON
In comparison, JSON is much neater and is the preferred format nowadays. 
Some things to keep in mind: all the info. on how to use JSON can be found on json.org.
eval() takes JSON string and interprets it using python, converting it into a python dictionary.
It is not a good way to go about it; instead, use json.loads().

###API stuff
Word of advice from Mr. Z - don't use Google APIs except for the map API because it provides too much info. Always look
for a smaller alternative.
We looked at duckduckgo and tumblr's API. If we want to use a company's API, we will more often than not need to 
register for authentication because the company wants to know who is using their data. OAuth was also briefly mentioned.
It allows someone to get user data without needing their password. We saw a demonstration using tumblr API, which pulled
images from tumblr with the tag, "emu." We then listened to a funny story about Natan, Mr. Z's son, and then saw another
demonstration - wedding photos this time.

Lastly, programmableweb.com is a resourceful website with APIs for random and not random stuff.

