##Minutia 15 - Period 7
####Hunter Herman | 10-17-13

###MongoDB

* MongoDB is a database run in javascript designed around the concept of monolithic data, which, in contrast to the many varieties of sql, is intended to be used with totally independant "tables" or "collections"
* To use MongoDB in python you can install and import PyMongo, which is functionally the same as the javascript version
* The primary benefit of using MongoDB (in our case) is that it is directly integrated with the language. This means that the data returned is immediately usable in code, and represents familiar structs (dictionaries, lists). 
* MongoDB is also a schemaless database. This means that any entry can have a variable number of named fields. While this limits the hardened structure of schema-based databases, it allows for more flexible datasets.


###Usage

####Connecting to a database
    client = MongoClient("url",portNumber)
    database = client.databaseName
This creates a client variable, which is the server conection, and a database variable, which is the database itself.

####Opening a collection
    OurCollection = database.collectionName //OR
    OurCollection = database["collectionName"]
    OurCollection is the collection itself and contains the data:

####Data Format
MongoDB stores data in a JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) format, which is remarkably similar to the structure of a dictionary in Python

    JSON:
    {
        Dogs: {
            Shih-Tzu: {
                DAVE: {
                    Color : "Red",
                    Weight : "122lbs",
                    Health : "None"
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    Python Dictionry:
    dogs = { "Shih-Tzu": {
                "DAVE": {
                    "Color" : "Red",
                    "Weight" : "122lbs",
                    "Health" : "None"
                    }
                }
            }
Theyre pretty much the same thing. So we can use dictionaries to manipulate MongoDB.
Typically mongoDB data is much shallower then the above examples, similar to:
    
    {
        Name: "Hunter",
        Post: 15,
        Grade: 100
    }
    
####Getting your data
In mongodb you make requests for data by giving a "requirement" dictionary, which MongoDB uses to find matching entries:
    
    OurCollection.find({"Name":"Hunter"})
    // Returns
    {
        Name: "Hunter",
        Post: 15,
        Grade: 100
    }

MongoDB supports many different operations, such as insertions and deletions.
