---
layout: minutia-6
title: Period 7 Minutia 38
published: true
---

#Javascript

| Hunter Herman | Period 7 | #38 | 12/2/13 |
| --------------|----------|-----|-------- |

### Debugging
Before we get started, knowing how to debug your javascript is pretty essential. Your main tool is available in at least *Firefox* and *Chrome*, and that is the **Javascript Console**. In Chrome you can open this with *ctrl+alt+j*.

The console acts just like regular javascript, except you can view the results of each line in real time. You can use it to check the values of certain variables or the results of functions from your javascript code, just by sending the names in the console.

To print to the console from your code, use
    
    console.log(value);
    
And then view the code in your favorite browsers Javascript Console

### Variables
In javascript variables can be declared at any time, with no type. However, in order to declare a variable within the local scope, it is neccessarry to include the **var** keyword. Eg:
    
    function f() {
        var a = 1;
        b = 1;
        b = a * 2;
    }
    f();
    console.log(a); // error undefined
    console.log(b); // 2

### Functional Programming
The beauty of javascript is that at heart it is a lisp. One of the great advantages of a list is its implementation of functions. In a traditional programming language functions would be defined as follows: 

    type name(arguments) {
        code
        return type
    }

these functions are called by the assigned name excusively (unless wrapped by another function.

On the other functions in javascript have a number of handy features, including

* Reference assignment
* Optional anonymity
* Optional arguments
* Variable scope

meaning you could, for example, pass a function into another function to get a result:

    var f = function(a, b) {
        return a + b;
    }
    var c = (function(c,func) {
        return c * func(3,4);
    })(2,f);
    
    c == 14 // true
    
### Equals
In addition to the typical assignment **=** operator and the boolean **==** operator, javascript adds another boolean operator **===**. This special long equals checks not only for value equivalency, but type equivalency (no type conversions are performed before checking for identical values). For example

    1 == "1"
    
will return true, because after type conversions both the string "1" and the integer 1 have the same value, however
    
    1 === "1"
    
will return false, because **===** performs no type conversions and instead sees inequal values.
