---
layout: minutia-6
title: Period 6 Minutia 46
published: true
---

## Minutia 46 Period 6
### Victoria Greene
### 12/10/13

First, we went over the Javascript assignment, and declared Jia Sen the winner for his beautiful Change page (aka Obama's face).

###Closures
A closure is a cool little tool in javascript.  It is essentially a function that serves as a reference environment, and can a function and variables inside it.  This way, the variables declared inside the outer function act as global variables for everything inside the function, the inner functions act as methods, and the outer function is kind of like a class (think: java).  The advantage of using closures is that they serve as their own little environments that cannot disrupt other parts of your code.

Here's a pretty general example:
       
       var test = function() {
       	   var x = 0;
	   return function() {
	   	  console/log(x);
		  x = x + 1;
	   }
       }();
       //The parentheses at the end run the funcion immediately so you get the result of the function, not the function itself. 

Here's a more complex example, which is essentially a possible solution for the javascript assignment:

       var next = function() {
       	   var highlight = 0;
	   return function() {
	   	  var elts = document.querySelectorAll('li');
		  elts[highlight].classList.remove('red');
		  hightlight = (highlight + 1)%elts.length;
		  elts[highlight].classList.add('red');
	   }
       }();

###A couple other notes
Towards the end of class, we also went over how to add an event listener, like so:

       var elts = document.querySelectorAll('li');
       for (var i=0;i<elts.length;i++) {
       	   	elts[i].addEventListener('click',redback);
		elts[i].addEventListener('mouseover',green);	
		elts[i].addEventListener('mouseout',green);
	}

addEventListener() takes two parameters: the action at which the event will occur and the function representing the event.

Click, obviously, means that the event will occur when you click on the item.
Mouseover means that the event will occur when you mouse over the item.
Mouseout that the event will occur when your mouse leaves the item.

