---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 12
---

## Minutia 12 Pd 6
### Helen Lin
### 10/10/13

####Superhero Conversation
* Mr. Z was slightly disappointed within the lack of radioactive catwo information within the minutia for our period.
	* Catwoman is a superhero bitten by a radioactive catwo.
* We also discussed what kind of superhero a Herman would be. We safely concluded that a Herman would fix people's marriages, beat up cheating spouses, and has beer as his/her ultimate weakness.
* Next time, culture discussions should also be included within the minutia because Software Development is a class for all aspects of our character--mind, body, and soul, not just programming.


####Using sqlite3
* Make sure you remember the 3 in sqlite3
* Dot commands are sqlite3 commands, not SQL commands
	* When you use the .read FILENAME, any text document can be used
	* .insert into TABLENAME values(put the data in)
* Non-dot commands are SQL commands
	* Use drop table TABLENAME to get rid of the table
	* Use alter to change schemas
	* select * from TABLENAME to pull out data
	* semicolons at the end
* Database schema is a way to logically group objects such as tables, views, stored procedures etc. It's like a container of objects.
* Storage classes: null, integer, real, text, [blob] (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TdUsyXQ8Wrs)
* The POWER OF SQL: idea of linking two tables together; links known as relations
	* Combining components together to make a new table
		* select TABLE.COMPONENT,OTHERTABLE.COMPONENT to get both!
		* use from to indicate from which table
		* use where to indicate more specifically what you're looking for (ex: where id > 3000)

####Text Manipulation
* Using emacs (but these commands are found in any worthwhile text editor)
	* Regexp: replace regular expression, find and replace operation
		* Type $ to indicate end of line
	* Insert Rectangle: insert string at particular location on every line
  
	
