---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 32
---

# Minutia 45 Period 6
## Steve Zhu
### 12/9/13

The projector screen would not come down, so the power cord was wrapped around the handle of the screen which was then wrapped around a desk chair's leg.

__Highlight of the period__: Flipped Mr. Cocoros's desks around.

### Most of the class period: Mr. Zamansky's haircut

He is now bald and has the ability to rub his head when thinking deeply.  
Story was told on the Magnificent Seven, Seven Samurai, A Bug's Life conspiracy where all of them tell the same story:

1. Bandits/grasshoppers attack village/colony.
2. People/bugs go to big city to find gunslingers/samurais/circus bugs
3. People/bugs from big city save small village/colony.

...which obviously relates to Mr. Z's baldness.

Stuff to take away: Kambei Shimada from Seven Samurai rubs his head in a way in which Mr. Z can now do.

### Stuff no one cares about

JavaScript library #1: [jQuery](http://jquery.com/)  
Similar lightweight library: [Zepto.js](http://zeptojs.com/)  
Utility libary: [Underscore.js](http://underscorejs.org/)  

__Simple ways to use jQuery__  

	$('li').addClass('red');
	$('li').removeClass('red');
	$('li').each(function() {
		var $this = $(this);
		console.log($this.outerWidth());
	});

* __addClass()__ adds the given class to each element found  
* __removeClass()__ removes the given class from each element found  
* __each()__ loops through each element found and runs the given function  

jQuery also has animations including [sliding](http://api.jquery.com/slideToggle/), but css animations are much better. JS animations suck even though they are easy to use.
