---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 15
published: true
---

##Minutia 15
###Jason Han

###Paul Graham

Mr. Z received an email today about Paul Graham, a renowned technologist, programmer, essayist, and venture capitalist. 

*Paul Graham founded Y-Combinator, a seed accelerator. Aspiring entrepreneurs apply for funding to get them off the ground, and if accepted, receive funding and mentoring for a few months to a year. In return, Y-Combinator receives about 6% of the budding company’s equity. Fun fact: A group of Stuy students once got a check from Y-Combinator but disbanded before they even cashed it in. 

*Everyone should go to news.ycombinator.com, or Hacker News, which has all sorts of interesting tech info and news on a variety of different topics. It’s like Reddit, but less insane. Hacker News is a subforum of the Y-Combinator website. 

*Graham’s written three books: _Hackers and Painters_, _On Lisp_, and _ANSI Common Lisp_. Lisp is a functional language from the 50’s. 

*Graham’s first product, written entirely in Lisp, eventually became the Yahoo! Store. When he first wrote it, no one would buy it from him because he claimed to have written it in two months (which was true). He eventually sold it, but only after hiring a bunch of his buddies to act busy whenever businessmen would arrive, to make it seem like his work had been a group effort. 

*Graham himself states that he writes code quickly not because of his proficiency or talent but because he’s a Lisp programmer. Apparently, Lisp programmers are a hundred times more productive than programmers of other languages, such as Java or PHP.

*Graham has also written many essays. One of them is called “Plan for Spam”, which explains in detail the problems confronted by the earliest spam blockers and how they were fixed. Early spam blockers watched for certain words (like “Viagra” or “Insurance”), words with all capital letters, and shady email addresses. Spam senders, however, could easily trick the spam blocker by sending their mail through a different, not-so-shady email address, and generally, the constraints made by spam blockers wouldn’t work a hundred percent of the time. Bayesian filtering, however, works much more effectively; in this method of spam blocking, a large number of both spam and regular mail is analyzed for word frequencies, which are then used to differentiate innocent emails from spam. 

*Other essays Graham has written include “Why Nerds are Unpopular”, “It’s Charisma, Stupid”, and “What You’ll Wish You’d Known”, the last of which could have been written for Stuyvesant in mind. 

*Off-Topic: There was once a student named Jack (’04 or ’05) who was the go-to guy to get things done. He had a key to all rooms of the building and was really good at managing and giving the people he managed proper credit. He also married his male cousin to get in-state tuition for a school in California.

*Off-Topic: Mr. Z hates the term “Hispanic” when used to encompass too many different people of varying nationality and culture. For example, someone from Spain is not inherently the same as someone from Puerto Rico. Educational background, social mobility, etc. can all be very different. 

*Off-Topic: Mr. Z once knew a student named Jason Rasky (or Raskey, or Rascii, or something like that.) Jason would program in school until 11pm or so, and when the school closed for the day, he would call Z saying "I'm locked in school...". Jason would crash at Z's place as a result. Hence why Z learned a new word: "Fuckin'Rasky" (or Raskey, or something.)

*The email itself was important because it placed emphasis on not just Stuy, but StuyCS, and implied that StuyCS students would go on to schools like Harvard and MIT, and then to places like Google. 

###SQLite

Sqlite has some advantages, but many problems as well.

**Advantages**
* Very good with Links/Relationships. You can have a student table, a teacher table, a transcript table, etc., and combine them in many different ways. Lots of work can be done at the database level. You can do substantial work with just sql selects. 

**Disadvantages**
*Doesn’t scale well. Making large databases is expensive and complicated. 
*You have to make the schema in advance. 
*Primitive. Essentially, you’re making one big string, the same way it’s been done since the 1970’s. 

###NoSQL

*No need for a schema in advance.
*Much simpler in design
*More scalable
*Doesn’t rely on the database for work. You can get data quickly and then manipulate it in your native language.

Comparison:
*Mercurial/SQL: James Bond. A polished agent with a tool for every scenario. “Laser transmitter snorkel device.”
*Git/NoSQL: MacGyver. Doesn’t have much of a toolset but puts everything together from what he has around him. “Three tin cans.”

###Types of Databases

**Key-Value**
*You may query for keys, but nothing else. 
*Shelves could be seen as a NoSQL database. 
*Example: Google’s Big Table. It’s been patched countless times. Everyone’s too scared to fix it for fear that it’ll crash completely, resulting in a catastrophic loss of data.

**Document**
*You may query for anything in the database, not just the keys. 

###MongoDB

*Philosophy: Use a library of code. Work with your native language, use native data structures. Not all NoSQL databases work like this.

*Lots of documentation/drivers, and you can use it without downloading it via the browser shell on their website.

*Native interface is JavaScript. 

###To Load Mongo

	mongo
	mongo localhost
	mongo db.stuycs.org

	show dbs #Prints a list of all databases on the server
	use <db> #Switch current database to db. Set db as current database
	#db doesn't have to previously exist for you to use it, but it doesn't		#exist until something is saved
	show collections #Prints all the collections for your current database
	