---
layout: Minutia-6
title: Period 6 Minutia 37
published: true
---

#Minutia 37
##By: Dorit Rein

Tomorrow (Tuesday, November 26): We are having a guest speaker!
Wednesday, November 27: We have another day to work on our group projects.

###What We Already Know About Javascript
	+Its not Java!
	+Its a scripting language.
	+It makes websites more interactive. Good at manipulating websites.
	+But it also breaks websites.

Why is Javascript called Javascript? At the time that Javascript was created in 1995, Java was really trendy so they wanted it to sound like Java so people would use it.

###Javascript's Traits
	+Its an interpreted language.
	+Its universally available. You can run it on any browser.
	+There are javascript standards, but no one follows them. The core is essentially the same, but tiny details are different in different browsers.
	+You can put javascript into HTML. To do so, put your javascript code into script tags(<script></script>).

Mr. Zamansky says that despite it being universally available, you should always use Chrome!

###Things to Think About 
    +We should think of Javascript as a scheme-type language. While it is technically not, its easier to understand as a lisp-type language.
    +Javascript is the worst programming environment ever (according to Mr. Z). It gives minimal erros. Use alerts or consoloe.log("some_text") to test if your code is running.
    +On second thought, dont use alerts. Mr. Zamansky says they are annoying and you dont want to use them.


###The Console
      + Right click, and then click inspect the element, which will bring you to a javascript console.
      +The console allows users to edit the code live.
      +REPL (or read, evaluate, print, loop), is the command line interface to a language.
      +In order to get multiple lines in REPL, use command, shift, enter.
      +As mentioned before, use console.log("some_text") to debug.
      +Using document.queryselectorall("some_identifier") is really helpful in finding and editing elements from your code in the console itself.
      +DOM-->Document Object Model: Internal representation of the webstie. Sort of like a trait.
      +For example: item.innerHTML = "hello" will change item's value to "hello". 

###Data Structures in Javascript (Taken from Maia because this is clearer than my notes)
L = [1,2,3,4,5]
L[2] returns 3
L['hello'] = 33
L.hello returns 33
a = {'one':1, 'two':2}
a['one'] and a.one both return 1
Lists and dictionaries are not only lists and dictionaries respectively, but are also objects in their own right.


###Other information
	 +Script should always go at the bottom of the page.
	 +Commenting is done the same as Java "//".
	 +Variables must always have var before them otherwise there could be terrible consequences. (for example, var a = "hello", NOT a = "hello")
	 +JQuery is a library that lets a user use javascript more easily.


