---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 06
published: true
---

## Minutia 06 Pd 7
### Victoria Chung
### 10/02/13

### Shelves
* They are similar to python dictionaries with these difference:
  * 1) They can't be used like this: s[1] to get infromation.
  * 2) You can't use tuples like this: 

> s[1,2,3] = "hello"

   You can never use a tuple. You can only use strings or integers. 

* Shelves are not built into the python database. They are an interface. 
* You can put a dictionary into a shelf but you can't use it as a key.
* Shelves are also not very nice to work with because two people who are working on the same file will have a very hard time (i.e. one person is writing it while the other person is erasing it).
  * Modern systems will usually crash the program
  * Old systems would probably let you write even though there is no file (writing to a file where there is no "garbage collector" = bad stuff happens).
* You should not use a shelve for a complicated project because it is really slow and inefficient. 

### Tracking Information Across Web Calls
* Usually when the client tries to get from the server multiple times, there are separate versions even though it looks like only one program. A new version of the program starts. Every single connection is unique. 
* This is inefficient because information is being kept without logging in.
* To keep track of how many times you have visited the site, the website starts at zero and each time you visit the site, the count increases by one. Usually this is found on the webpage itself. 

### The Counter
* To get the code for the Counter, go here: [The Counter] (https://github.com/stuycs-softdev/classcode/tree/master/7/counter)

* In this version of the Counter, information is passing back and forth. Everything about thsi webpage is going back and forth. This is not good when ther is a huge amount of information. A more efficient way is to get a little at a time. 

* NEXTLEVEL: Database
  * The website will identfy you through a log in (in class the 1111). 
  * The server contacts the database who identifies you with a key (1111). The server looks up all the data necessary from that key.
  * Only that little information will be traveling back and forth.


### CSTUY Help
* Mr. Z wants to know if anyone is interested or knows someone who would be itnerested in helping Mr. Z with the CSTUY website. It would be an unpaid internship with CSTUY. Email him if interested!

 
