---
layout: mintuia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 02
published: true
---

## Minutia 02
### Christopher Burke

###Homework
 * Don't do the hw on the website
 * SSH to a school computer and clone the submissions and classcode repositories

###Minutia
 * On your day do it as early as possible
 * If you're unexpectedly absent, don't worry about contacting somebody to swtich with, just email Mr. Zamansky

###Mailing List
 * Please use descriptive subjects in your messages

###SSH
 * General Policy - When you're coding at home, SSH to a school computer and clone whatever you did so as to not waste time in class. Similarly, don't try pushing the code you do in class, just add and commit it, then use SSH to push it once you get home

###HTML
 HTML does have constructs, such as if statements:

    \{%if name %}
    Welcome {{name}}
    {% else %}
    You have no name
    {% endif %}

###Python
Python has no arrays, but it has lists, which are actually more similar to Scheme's lists than arrays. Some examples of using lists:

    l1 = [3,'.',[1,4,1,5],9]
    print l1 -> [3,'.',[1,4,1,5],9]
    print l1[0] -> 3
    print l1[2][2] -> 1
    l1.pop() -> 9 (l1 becomes [3,'.',[1,4,1,5]])
    print l1[0:2] -> [3,'.']
    print l1[-2] -> .
    
There are two ways of adding to lists:

    l1 = [0,1]
    l2 = [0,1]
    l1 = l1 + [2] (l1 is now [0,1,2])
    l2.append(2) (l2 is now [0,1,2])

The difference between the two is that the former actually creates and entirely new list instead of just adding on to the original, making the latter more efficient

###Hash Tables
A hash table stores values using value-key pairs in order to attempt constant time in insertions and searches. In open hashing, the values are converted into numeric values and then stored in a specific slot, and added to a list in that slot if there is already a value there. In closed hashing, conflicts are resolved by taking the next open spot. Open hashing has constant time insertions and "expected constant time" searches, while closed hashing has "expected constant time" for both, meaning that the more conflicts there are, the more it will degenerate into linear time. Therefore it should be sparsely populated. You have to be careful with hash tables, because keeping them sparsely populated could result in usage of a lot of memory.

###Dictionaries
Dictionaries in Python are stored as hash tables

    d = {} -> creates dictionary
    d['name'] = 'Tom'
    d['id'] = 1234
    d[122] = [1,2,3,4]
    d.keys() -> [122,'name','id']

You can also store functions

    def f():
       return 22

    d['func'] = f
    d['func']() -> 22