---
layout: minutia-7
title: Period 7 Minutia 39
published: true
---

Minutia 39
##By: Isabella Siu

###Projects Discussion
Mr. Zamansky showed us some of the github charts and went over project workflow.
Hunter also got teased for his three commits until it was revealed that there
actually were about eight different hermans working on the project.

###Reminder
Javascript is easy but also weird and unforgiving so we should practice every
day.

###Event Driven Programming (Callbacks)
Event driven  programming says that when a certain event, like a mouse click, 
occurs, a routine will be called.
First, Mr. Z added (and struggled with) some buttons to the html code.

       <input type="submit" value="Button1" id="b1">
       <input type="submit" value="Button2" id="b2">

Then wrote some javascript (in the javascript file, if that was not obvious) for
the event driven part.

    var elt=document.getElementById('b1');
    elt.addEventListener('click',stripe);

This means that when the button is clicked, the stripe function will be
activated, though some changes had to be made to stripe for it to work.
These are just the lines that changed.

     var stripe = function(e) {
     	 console.log(e);
	 var items = document.querySelectorAll('li');

Now, stripe will work with elt.
We wrote a couple other functions using different events, such as 'mouseover'
and 'mouseout'.  'mouseover' is pretty self explanitory and 'mouseout' enacts
the change after you move the cursor off it.

###Stuff you should do
Mr. Z said to make a little page with a list, where the first item is a bit
different, and a button.  Clicking the button should make the next item on the
list have that difference, and make the first like the rest.  It shoud loop 
through all the list items.