---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 33
published: true
---

# Minutia 33 Period 6
## Jasper Lu
### 11/19/13

__GIT__
Today we learned about the basic project flow when working with git.
Generally, each worker creates his or her own branch and works from there using the following steps:

- git branch -branchname-
- git checkout -branchname-

You can add an existing branch through the same way.

Now, the worker can work on this branch without interfering with the master branch or the branches of other workers. After finishing the work, the worker can then merge his branch with the master branch through the following steps:

- git pull origin (remote branch from server)
- git commit -m "message"
- git push origin -branchname-

\*\*Note: git checkout can be used to revert to the last pull.

__Merge Conflicts__
Merge conflicts can occur when two people edit the same file and change the same blocks of code.
In this case, you have to resolve the merge conflict and then push the resolved file yourself.

There are some tools to help make this task easier. You can access a list of them through the command "git mergetool". One example of a tool is meld.

__Pull Request__
Allows someone to merge a branch. You send the pull request, enter the commit message, and then the admin of the github repository can pull your change in.

When merging a pull request, make sure to check extensively that it won’t break anything. There is a commenting system.

Confirm the merge & then can delete the branch used.

\*A pull request is a request to merge. “I’ve made changes. Will somebody who’s authorized to do the change do it?”

__Issue Tracker__
Github also offers an issue tracker. It gives you a centralized place to track issues inside of you project. It can also be used as a to-do list.

Can also assign issues/jobs to people to do.

When you're done, close it and party.

__WARNING!__
"git push -f is not for mere mortals to use." -- Steve Zhu, RIP
