---
layout: minutia-6
title: Minutia 22
---

Minutia 22 Period 6
======

Sweyn Venderbush 10-29-13
--------

####Ways to Solve Mazes

How do you get out after being dropped into a maze: Left hand or right hand rule [It doesn't matter which but you need to be consistant]
This only works however if there is actually an exit to the maze otherwise you'll just walk around forever without knowing it.

>**Important Tangent:**
>The Order of Old FPSs: Unreal Tournament after Quake after Doom after Wolfenstein 3D after Wolfenstein 2D

>**Also:** There aren't any vampires in this class but we still don't like light

>**Thirdly:** Corn mazes: the best types are broken up into "quadrants" and as you walk you collect the map of each "quadrant"

Another Strategy: You go until the first "decision point" you go one way either left or right.  It is arbitrary but must be consistant.  You want to mark the direction that you went and also the direction that you came from.  When you hit a dead endm you backtrack and try the next. 
If we label each decision with a number, we can use a *stack* to record information.  

    solve(){
        walk tot he next decison point
        if exit:
            done
        else if ended in wall or visited:
            return
        else:
            solve(up)
            solve(down)
            solve(left)
            solve(right)
    }

Mr. Z then showed us a Java implementation that he wrote 2 years ago.

This algorithm is an exampel of **Depth First Search (DFS).**  You go as deep down a path as possible and then try something else if that fails.

*A graph:* a collection of nodes and edges

You can make each state a node and then connect them with edges to display this algorithm as a graph.